# 296. Best Meeting Point

A group of two or more people wants to meet and minimize the total travel distance. You are given a 2D grid of values 0 or 1, where each 1 marks the home of someone in the group. The distance is calculated using [Manhattan Distance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxicab_geometry), where distance\(p1, p2\) = `|p2.x - p1.x| + |p2.y - p1.y|`.

**Example:**

```text
Input: 

1 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 1
|   |   |   |   |
0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 0
|   |   |   |   |
0 - 0 - 1 - 0 - 0

Output: 6 

Explanation: Given three people living at (0,0), (0,4), and (2,2):
             The point (0,2) is an ideal meeting point, as the total travel distance 
             of 2+2+2=6 is minimal. So return 6.
```

### Sol: find median, proof

The Best Meeting Point problem can be reduced to a 1-dimension pure math problem:

* **Given an increasing sequence {xi=1:N}, find real number x to minimize function f\(x\) := Σi=1:N \|x-xi\|.**

Simply grouping the sum into pairs:

* f\(x\) = Σi=1:N/2 \(\| x-xi \| + \| x-xN+1-i \|\) + \(N%2\)\*\| x-xN/2+1 \|.

Note that we don't have the last term if N is even since they are all grouped into pairs. I will explain why we need to \(have to\) group the sum in such a form later.

Using triangle inequality, \|x-xi\| + \|x-xN+1-i\| &gt;= \|xN+1-i - xi\| = xN+1-i - xi, and the fact N%2 &gt;= 0, so we can find a lower bound for f

* f\(x\) &gt;= Σi=1:N/2 \(xN+1-i - xi\),

which means if we could actually pick an x to achieve this value, we find the optimal x!

Actually, inequality \|x-xi\| + \|x-xN+1-i\| &gt;= \|xN+1-i - xi\| achieves equality if and only if x is in \[xi, xN+1-i\]. Since {xi=1:N} is increasing, closed interval sequence { \[xi, xN+1-i\] }i=1:N/2 is nested, and so they have non-empty common intersection \[xN/2, xN-N/2+1\]. This is critical, and this is why we need to design the grouping like this. Now it is trivial to see that picking any value in the intersection \[xN/2, xN-N/2+1\] will reach the minimum if N is even, and only x = xN/2+1 can reach the minimum if N is odd \(since we also have to make \|x-xN/2+1\| zero\).

```python
class Solution:
    #for one dimension, just find the median
    #for 2 demension, since they are seperatable, find the medians for x/y respectively
    def minTotalDistance(self, grid: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        if not grid:
            return 0
        r, c = len(grid), len(grid[0])
        sumr = [i for i in range(r) for j in range(c) if grid[i][j]]
        sumc = [j for i in range(r) for j in range(c) if grid[i][j]]
        sumr.sort()
        sumc.sort()
        mid_row = sumr[len(sumr)//2]
        mid_col = sumc[len(sumc)//2]
        return sum([abs(r-mid_row) for r in sumr]) + sum([abs(c-mid_col) for c in sumc])
```

### sol2: two pointers

Before solving the 2D problem we first consider a 1D case. The solution is quite simple. Just find the median of all the `x` coordinates and calculate the distance to the median.

Alternatively, we can also use two pointers to solve the 1D problem. `left` and `right` are how many people one left/right side of coordinates `i`/`j`. If we have more people on the left we let `j` decrease otherwise increase `i`. The time complexity is `O(n)` and space is `O(1)`.

To be more clear, a better view is we can think `i` and `j` as two meet points. All the people in `[0, i]` go to meet at `i` and all the people in `[j, n - 1]` meet at `j`. We let `left = sum(vec[:i+1])`, `right = sum(vec[j:])`, which are the number of people at each meet point, and `d` is the total distance for the `left` people meet at `i` and `right` people meet at `j`.

Our job is to let `i == j` with minimum `d`.

If we increase `i` by 1, the distance will increase by `left` since there are 'left' people at `i` and they just move 1 step. The same applies to `j`, when decrease `j` by 1, the distance will increase by `right`. To make sure the total distance `d` is minimized we certainly want to move the point with less people. And to make sure we do not skip any possible meet point options we need to move one by one.

For the 2D cases we first need to sum the columns and rows into two vectors and call the 1D algorithm.  
The answer is the sum of the two. The time is then `O(mn)` and extra space is `O(m+n)`

Moreover, the solution is still `O(mn)` with the follow up:

> What if there are people sharing same home?  
> In other words the number in the grid can be more than 1.

```python
    def minTotalDistance(self, grid):
        row_sum = list(map(sum, grid))
        col_sum = list(map(sum, zip(*grid)))

        def minTotalDistance1D(vec):
            i, j = -1, len(vec)
            d = left = right = 0
            while i != j:
                if left < right:
                    i += 1
                    d += left
                    left += vec[i]
                else:
                    j -= 1
                    d += right         
                    right += vec[j]
            return d

        return minTotalDistance1D(row_sum) + minTotalDistance1D(col_sum)
```

